---
title: Tournament Players Tab
keywords: tournament players
sidebar: ch_sidebar
permalink: tmx_tournament_players.html
toc: true
---

## Introduction

The Players Tab is where tournament players are managed.  Registered players may be synchronized with remote servers; additional players may be created, added from the local database or removed from the tournament; players may also be signed in or out of the tournament.

{% include image.html file="ch_tournament_players.png" alt="Tournament Players" caption="Tournament Players" %}

Once players have been added to a tournament other options appear...

{% include image.html file="ch_tournament_players_org.png" alt="Tournament Players" caption="Additional Options" %}

## Synchronizing Registered Players

<div style='display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap;'>
<div style='padding-right: 1em;'>
{% include image.html file="tmx_url.png" alt="Link" caption="Link" %}
</div>
{% include image.html file="tmx_refresh.png" alt="Refresh" caption="Refresh" %}
</div>

### Remote Registration Systems

[Organization Keys](tmx_configuration.html) can configure CourtHive/TMX to retrieve players registered for tournaments from remote servers.

If an Organization Key has been entered, clicking on the __Refresh Icon__ checks the remote server for newly registered players.

[Context Clicking](tmx_fundamentals.html) on the __Refresh Icon__ replaces any existing list with an up-to-date list of registered players from the server.

### Google Sheets

If a remote server has not been defined by an [Organization Key](tmx_configuration.html) then the players for a tournament may be synchronized with a [Google Sheet](tmx_google_sheets.html).  Click the __Set Link__ icon to enter the website address (URL) of the sheet you wish to associate with a tournament.

Google Sheets for __Tournament Registration__ may also be automatically generated by services such as [JotForm](tmx_jotform.html).

## Adding Players from Spreadsheet Files

When no remote registration system or google sheet has been defined, you can __Load Players__ from the local filesystem.  

{% include image.html file="tmx_load_players.png" alt="Load Players" caption="Load Players" %}

The dialogue that appears allows you to drag/drop files or browse the local file system.

{% include image.html file="ch_data_load.png" alt="Load Data" caption="" %}

### Spreadsheet Template / UTR Ratings List

Players may be imported using the TMX [Spreadsheet Template](http://courthive.com/tmx/assets/CourtHiveImportTemplate.xlsx), or the [UTR Ratings List](https://app.myutr.com/players/ratingslist) export format.

When using the [UTR Ratings List](https://app.myutr.com/players/ratingslist), players appearing on the __Matched Players__ tab will automatically be imported into the tournament, along with their current ratings.

## Adding Players from the Local Database

{% include image.html file="ch_search_add_player.png" alt="Add Player" caption="Add Player" %}

If there are players in the local player database they may be added to the tournament using the [Search Box](tmx_searchbox.html).

{% include important.html content="Only players who are eligible for the currently selected Tournament Category will be found." %}

{% include image.html file="ch_search_roger.png" alt="Add Player" caption="Eligible Player Search" %}

## Sign-In and Sign-Out

The simplest way to sign-in or sign-out players is to click on the player's name.

{% include tip.html content="In addition to adding new players, the [Search Box](tmx_searchbox.html) may also be used to sign in or out players who are already registered.  This is particularly useful when there are numerous players and it is difficult to find a player's name by scanning the list." %}

{% include note.html content="Players who are approved for tournament events may not be signed out from a tournament." %}

## Filtering Players

### Gender Filters

In the upper right of the __Players Tab__ there are gender filters which enable the player list to be filtered.  These filters can be used when printing player lists or signing in players, since for many tournaments Male and Female players sign in at different times.

{% include image.html file="ch_players_filtering.png" alt="Filtering" caption="Gender Filters" %}

{% include tip.html content="__Gender Filters__ change the behavior of the __PDF Icon__ so that Sign-In sheets may be generated which are appropriate to the tournament organizer's workflow." %}

### Category Filter

The players list can be filtered by age and rating categories using the selector on the upper left of the tab.

{% include image.html file="tmx_category_filter.png" alt="Categories" caption="Category Filter" %}

{% include important.html content="Categories are defined by [Configuration Keys](tmx_configuration.html)." %}

## Modifying Rankings and Ratings

Once players have been added to a tournament, a __Rankings Icon__ appears to the right of the __Category Filter__.  If player rankings or ratings need to be modified, click the __Rankings Icon__ to enter edit mode.

{% include image.html file="ch_rankings_icon.png" alt="Modify Rankings" caption="Toggle Edit Mode" %}

{% include important.html content="Modified Rankings and Ratings are not saved until you exit edit mode." %}

{% include image.html file="ch_rankings_edit.png" alt="Edit Rankings" caption="Edit Rankings" %}

{% include tip.html content="Click on the __Rank__ column header to switch to editing Doubles." %}

### Ranking by Ratings

Clicking the __Ratings Column Header__ presents the option to rank players by their ratings.

{% include image.html file="tmx_rank_by_rating.png" alt="Edit Rankings" caption="Edit Rankings" %}

### Subrankings

Player rankings can be modified either before or after players have been signed in.

Once players have been signed in, TMX checks to see whether there are players with equivalent rankings.  If any players have equivalent rankings, an additional entry box appears next to those players' rankings where a "subranking" may be entered to differentiate such players for seeding purposes.  

{% include image.html file="ch_rankings_subrank.png" alt="Subrank" %}

## Printing / PDFs

{% include image.html file="tmx_pdf.png" alt="PDF" caption="Generate PDF" %}

If there are players registered for a tournament, a __PDF Icon__ appears next to the [Gender Filters](tmx_tournament_players.html#gender-filters).

Clicking the __PDF Icon__ presents a choice of printing a __Singles Sign-In Sheet__, a __Doubles Sign-In Sheet__, or a Player __List__.

{% include tip.html content="__Gender Filters__ should be used so that appropriate Sign-In sheets can be printed." %}

{% include note.html content="PDFs are either saved or opened in a new Browser Tab, depending on the [Setting](tmx_setup.html#check-your-default-settings)." %}

## Publishing

{% include image.html file="tmx_publish.png" alt="Publish" caption="Publish Player List" %}

If an [Organization Key](tmx_configuration.html) has been entered then there is the option of publishing a player list to [CourtHive.com/Live](https://courthive.com/live/active).

{% include image.html file="tmx_player_list.png" alt="Player List" caption="Publish or Unpublish" %}

## Editing, Identifying and Deleting Players

[Context Clicking](tmx_fundamentals.html) on a player presents a number of options for modifying player data.

{% include tip.html content="Once a player has been signed in, only a normal click is necessary, making this functionality available to __Tablet/Mobile Devices__ while still enabling rapid single-click sign-in." %}

### Edit Player
Editing player attributes changes only instances where the player appears in the __Tournament Record__.

The Local Database is not affected.

### Identify Player
Sometimes an incorrect player (perhaps the wrong birth year) is added to a tournament.  The __Identify Player__ option enables all instances of a player _within a tournament_ to be replaced with the correct player record.

### Identify Player & Merge
Retains existing player attributes which are not replaced by the master record when a player is __Identified__.

### Delete Player
Players who have not been approved for any tournament events may be deleted.
